
************
Introduction
************

Rigify helps automate the creation of character rigs. It is based around a building-block approach,
where you build complete rigs out of smaller rig parts (e.g. arms, legs, spines, fingers...).
The rig parts are currently few in number, but as more rig parts are added to
Rigify it should become more and more capable of rigging a large variety of characters and creatures.

Rigify also operates on the principle that once a rig is created, that rig should no longer need Rigify.
This means you can always distribute rigs created with Rigify to people
who do not have it and the rigs will still function completely.

It is important to note that Rigify only automates the creation of the rig controls and bones.
It does not attach the rig to a mesh, so you still have to do skinning etc. yourself.


Main Features
=============

Modular rigging
   Rigify build blocks can be mixed together to rig any character you want.
   If you need to build a character with five arms and one leg
   Rigify can handle it for you creating all the required complex controls system
   (FK, IK, and all the relative snapping tools and the UI) in few seconds.

Nondisruptive re-rig
   If the generated rig doesn't fit all the features you need or, for example,
   you decide to add something more to your character (like a sixth arm or a tail),
   you can re-generate your rig without losing your previously generated features and your animation data.

Advanced and flexible feature set for character animation
   The included rig samples (limbs, spines, tails, fingers, faces...) adds to all the stretchy FK/IK features
   a direct deformation secondary layer that lets you flex, bend and deform the character as you like
   through interactive Bendy Bones controls.

Shareable animation through all Rigify rigs
   Since the control system is generated by Rigify, if you share a meta-rig through different characters
   you will be able to share data between them even if they have different proportions.

Extendable feature set
   You can save and encode your meta-rigs to a button to have them available at any time
   without recreating it by hand or share your meta-rigs with other people.
   Through Python scripting you can also extend Rigify with new Rigify-types or new rig samples.

Ready to go
   Once you generate your rig you won't need Rigify or any other add-on to use it.


Activation
==========

- Open Blender and go to Preferences then the Add-ons tab.
- Click Rigging then Rigify to enable the script.
